Smart Irrigation Dashboard Analysis
Based on the requirements outlined in description.txt, here is an analysis of the current website's capabilities and the recommended next steps.

Capability Analysis: Is the website capable?
YES, the current website is highly capable of fulfilling the client's needs.

Here is a breakdown of how the current codebase matches the requirements:

Monitor 5 Parameters:

Requirement: Humidity, Temperature, Soil Moisture, Water Level, and Disease Presence.
Current State: ✅ The Dashboard.jsx component has dedicated, color-coded sensor cards for Temperature, Humidity, Soil Moisture, and Water Level. It also has a StatusCard specifically for Disease detection and an ImageCard to show the Raspberry Pi camera feed.
6 Setups (Plants):

Requirement: Monitor 6 different setups (Setup 3 & 4 with 3 samples each).
Current State: ✅ The UI is built to handle dynamic active_plant data. The Sidebar and Dashboard components dynamically update to show whichever plant (1-6) is currently active.
Automatic Rotation:

Requirement: The UI needs to show the data for the plant the camera is currently looking at, then automatically switch when the camera rotates to the next plant.
Current State: ✅ The App.jsx file is already set up to poll the backend every 3 seconds (setInterval(..., 3000)). If the Raspberry Pi backend changes the active_plant value in its JSON response (as the camera rotates), the React website will automatically detect this, trigger a smooth transition (plantSwapKey), and display the new plant's image and sensor readings without requiring a page refresh.
Plain Monitoring (No Controls):

Requirement: No buttons or controls needed to send commands to the hardware.
Current State: ✅ The UI is purely read-only, matching this requirement perfectly.
Next Steps
Since the UI is functionally ready to display the required data, the next steps involve backend integration and making the system accessible remotely.

1. Ensure Backend API Compatibility
The UI expects the Raspberry Pi backend to provide data in a specific JSON format at the /api/current-data endpoint. You need to ensure the Python code on your Raspberry Pi returns JSON like this:

json
{
  "active_plant": 1,
  "temperature": 28.5,
  "humidity": 65,
  "soil_moisture": 45,
  "water_level": 80,
  "disease": "Negative",
  "disease_type": null,
  "image_url": "/images/current_capture.jpg",
  "timestamp": "2026-04-30T12:00:00Z"
}
The active_plant number should change in your Python code as the camera physically rotates.

2. Solve the "Remote Access" Requirement
The client needs to access the site from 5 barangays away on a different network. Since the prototype uses a dynamic IP, you cannot easily expose the Raspberry Pi directly.

Recommended Solution: Cloudflare Tunnels (Free & Reliable)

Install cloudflared on the Raspberry Pi.
It creates a secure tunnel from your Pi to the internet and gives you a standard web URL (e.g., https://my-thesis-irrigation.trycloudflare.com).
Unlike Ngrok's free tier, Cloudflare Tunnels won't time out or forcefully change the URL constantly during your defense.
You will update your React app's .env file to set VITE_API_URL to this Cloudflare URL.
3. Deploy the Website (Frontend)
Currently, you are running npm run dev to see the site locally. For a thesis defense and easy access:

Build the React app (npm run build).
Host the frontend on a free service like Vercel, Netlify, or GitHub Pages.
This way, the client just opens https://your-irrigation-dashboard.vercel.app on their phone or laptop anywhere in the world, and it will fetch real-time data from the Raspberry Pi via the secure tunnel.
4. End-to-End Testing
Connect all ESP32 sensors to the Raspberry Pi.
Run the ML model and rotation script.
Open the deployed website on a mobile phone using mobile data (to simulate being far away).
Verify that as the camera rotates, the website updates automatically with the correct values and image.